
                     Star Book No. 81    10 CENTS.




                               _Edgings_


                    _Crocheted·Tatted·Hair Pin Lace_


                        AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                  260 W. Broadway, New York 13, N. Y.
                 Copyright 1951    Printed in U. S. A.

                             See Pg. 2 for instructions on above Edgings




                      Tatted Motif and Edging #810


                      _Illustrated on front cover_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls Tinted Pink and Yellow or any color desired
  1 Shuttle
  1 Handkerchief

MOTIF: R, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last
r made, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last r
made, 3 d, 3 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r (clover), turn. Ch, 6 d, small p, 3
d, small p, 6 d, turn. * R, 3 d, p, 3 d, join to center free p of last r
made, 3 d, 2 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last r
made, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last r
made, 3 d, 3 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r, turn. Ch, 6 d, join to last p of
previous ch, 3 d, small p, 6 d, turn. Repeat from * twice joining the
last r to 1st r made and joining the ch at corresponding picots, tie and
cut.

2nd Row—R, 4 d, 4 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r, * turn. Ch, 6 d, turn. R, 4
d, p, 4 d, join to last p of last r made, 4 d, 2 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl
r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r made, 4 d, 4 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl
r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r made, 4 d, 3 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl
r, turn. Ch, 6 d, turn. R, 4 d, join to center free p of last r made, 4
d, 3 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r, turn. Ch, 6 d, p, 6 d, join to p of 1st r
of clover of 1st row, 6 d, join to 1st p of next r of same clover of 1st
row, 6 d, p, 3 d, turn. R, 4 d, p, 4 d, join to center free p of last r
made, 4 d, 2 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r
made, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r
made, 4 d, 3 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r, turn. Ch, 3 d, join to last p of
last ch, 6 d, skip 1 p of same r of 1st row, join in next p, 6 d, join
to next p of next r of same clover, 6 d, p, 6 d, turn. R, 4 d, p, 4 d,
join to center free p of last r made, 4 d, 2 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r.
Repeat from * twice, turn. Ch, 6 d, turn. R, 4 d, p, 4 d, join to last p
of last r made, 4 d, 2 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p
of last r made, 4 d, 4 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p
of last r made, 4 d, 3 p sep by 4 d 4 d, cl r, turn. Ch, 6 d, turn. R, 4
d, join to center free p of last r made, 4 d, 3 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r,
turn. Ch, 6 d, join to opposite p of last ch, 6 d, join to next p of
next r of 1st row, 6 d, join to next p of next r of same clover of 1st
row, 6 d, p, 3 d, turn. R, 4 d, p, 4 d, join to center free p of last r
made, 4 d, 2 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r
made, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 4 d, cl r. R, 4 d, join to last p of last r
made, 4 d, p, 4 d, join to center free p of 1st r made, 4 d, p, 4 d, cl
r, turn. Ch, 3 d, join to opposite p of last ch, 6 d, skip 1 p, join in
next p of same r of same clover, 6 d, join to next p of next r of same
clover, 6 d, join to p of opposite ch, 6 d, tie and cut.

Work 3 more motifs in same manner. Sew one motif in each corner of
handkerchief leaving the clover extend over edge of handkerchief. Cut
away extra material from underneath motif.

EDGE: R, 3 d, 3 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last
r, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last r, 3
d, 2 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r, turn. Ch, 3 d, p, 6 d, p, 2 d, p, 6 d, p,
3 d, turn. * R, 3 d, p, 3 d, join to center p of last r, 3 d, p, 3 d, cl
r. R, 3 d, join to last p of last r, 3 d, 4 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r. R,
3 d, join to last p of last r, 3 d, 2 p sep by 3 d, 3 d, cl r, turn. Ch,
3 d, join to last p of last ch, 6 d, p, 2 d, p, 6 d, p, 3 d, turn.
Repeat from * until strip is long enough to fit across side between
corner motifs. Work 3 more strips in same manner and sew on each side of
handkerchief between the corner motifs.




                           Flower Edging #811


                      _Illustrated on front cover_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    1 ball each Yellow and Nile Green
  Assorted Colors
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

1st FLOWER: With Yellow ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1 and work 10 s c
in ring, join in 1st s c, cut thread.

2nd Row—Attach Color in any s c, s c in same space, * ch 5, s c in next
s c, repeat from * all around ending row with ch 5, join in 1st s c, cut
thread.

2nd FLOWER: Work 1st row same as 1st flower.

2nd Row—Attach Color, s c in same space, ch 2, join to center st of any
loop of 1st flower (to join: sl loop off hook, insert in st, pull loop
through), ch 2, s c in next s c of 2nd flower, ch 2, join to next free
loop of 1st flower, ch 2, s c in next s c of 2nd flower, work remainder
of flower same as 1st flower. Work as many flowers as needed for each
side of handkerchief joining in same manner leaving 3 petals free on
upper and lower edge between joinings. Leave 6 petals free on outer edge
of each corner flower.

FINISHING: Attach Green in corner space of handkerchief, ch 1 and work 3
s c in same space, ** ch 1, s c in next space, join to center st of
center loop at lower edge of 1st free flower after corner flower, * ch
1, s c in next space, repeat from * for about ½ inch, join to center
loop of next flower, repeat from 1st * to last flower before corner
flower (ending in space before corner space), ch 1, 3 s c in corner
space, repeat from ** all around ending row to correspond, join, cut
thread.




                    Narrow Hairpin Lace Edging #812


                      _Illustrated on front cover_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    1 ball Tinted Lavender and Yellow or any color desired.
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13
  Hairpin Staple ¼ inch wide

HAIRPIN LACE: Make a loop at end of thread, insert hook in loop and wind
thread around right prong of hairpin staple, thread over hook and draw
through loop keeping loop at center, * drop loop from hook, turn staple
½ turn to the left, pick up the dropped loop at center, thread over hook
and pull through loop, insert hook through top part of loop on left hand
prong, thread over and pull through (2 loops on hook), thread over and
pull through both loops completing the single crochet, repeat from *
until lace is long enough to reach around entire handkerchief. When
staple is filled, slip loops off staple always keeping 4 or 5 loops on
so lace will not get twisted.

Sew around handkerchief as illustrated allowing a little fullness at
each corner.

EDGE: Attach thread in any loop of hairpin lace, * ch 3, s d c in 3rd st
from hook (s d c: thread over hook, insert in st, pull through, thread
over and pull through all loops at one time), sl st in next loop, repeat
from * all around, join, cut thread.




                         Crocheted Edging #813


                        _Illustrated on page 3_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    3 balls White or color desired
  1—11 inch Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach thread in corner, ch 6, d c in same space, ch 10, 2 d c with ch 3
between in same space, * ch 10, skip about ⅝ inch space, 2 d c with ch 3
between in next space (shell), repeat from * 19 times ending in corner
st, ch 10, shell in same space (corner), continue working all around in
same manner having 20-ch 10 loops on each side and 1 loop in each corner
space, ch 10, join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Row—Sl st to center of shell, ch 7, tr c in same space, ** ch 3, s c
in corner loop, * ch 3, s c in same loop, repeat from * once, ch 3, 1 tr
c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next shell, * ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, s c in
same loop, ch 3, s c in same loop, ch 3, shell in shell, repeat from *
to 2nd shell before corner, ch 3, s c in next loop, * ch 3, s c in same
loop, repeat from * once, ch 3, 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next shell,
repeat from ** all around in same manner ending row to correspond, join
in 4th st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st into loop, ch 7, tr c in same space, ** ch 3, skip 1 loop,
s c in next loop, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, skip 1 loop, 1 tr c, ch
3, 1 tr c in next loop, * ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, s c
in next loop, ch 3, shell in next shell, repeat from * to last shell
before corner group, ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, s c in
next loop, ch 3, skip 1 loop, l tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next loop, repeat
from ** all around in same manner ending row to correspond, join in 4th
st of ch.

4th Row—Sl st into loop, ch 4 (counts as 1 tr c), 2 tr c in same loop,
** ch 5, 3 tr c in same loop, * ch 3, skip 1 loop, 3 tr c, ch 5, 3 tr c
in next loop, repeat from * once, ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, *
ch 6, s c in next shell, ch 6, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, 3 tr
c, ch 5, 3 tr c in next shell, ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch
3, 3 tr c, ch 5, 3 tr c in next shell, ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next
loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 6, s c in next shell, ch 6, skip 1 loop,
s c in next loop, ch 3, 3 tr c in next shell, repeat from ** all around
in same manner, join in 4th st of ch.

5th Row—Ch 4 (counts as 1 tr c), 1 tr c in each of the next 2 tr c, ch
5, s c in next loop, ch 5, * thread over hook twice, insert in next tr
c, thread over and work off 2 loops twice, repeat from * 5 times, thread
over and work off all loops at one time (6 tr c cluster st), ch 5, 3 tr
c, ch 5, 3 tr c in next loop, ch 5, cluster st over the next 6 tr c, ch
5, s c in next loop, ch 5, 1 tr c in each of the next 3 tr c, * ch 3,
skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, 1 tr c in
each of the next 3 tr c, ch 7, s c in next loop, ch 7, cluster st over
the next 6 tr c, ch 7, s c in next loop, ch 7, 1 tr c in each of the
next 3 tr c, repeat from * 5 times, ch 3, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop,
ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, repeat from beginning all around in same
manner, join in 4th st of ch.

6th Row—Ch 4, 1 tr c in each of the next 2 tr c leaving the last loop of
each st on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time, *
ch 8, s c in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 5, 1 tr c in each of the
next 3 tr c, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 5, 1 tr c in each of the next 3
tr c, ch 5, s c in next loop, * ch 8, s c in next loop, repeat from *
once, ** ch 8, cluster st over next 6 tr c, * ch 8, s c in next loop,
repeat from * 3 times, repeat from ** 5 times, ch 8, cluster st over the
next 6 tr c, repeat from 1st * all around ending row with ch 8, 3 tr c
cluster st in last 3 tr c group, join to 1st cluster st.

7th Row—Ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for picot, ch 3, s c in next
loop, ch 3, sl st in s c for picot, * ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat
from * once, ch 3 picot, ch 6, 3 tr c cluster st over next 3 tr c group,
ch 3 picot, ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 7, sl st in 3rd st from hook for
picot, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 6, 3 tr c cluster st over next 3 tr c
group, ch 3 picot, ch 6, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3 picot, * ch
7, s c in next loop, repeat from * once, ** ch 3 picot, ch 3, sl st in
top of next cluster st, ch 3 picot, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3 picot,
ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 6, tr c in next loop, ch 5, sl st in 4th st
from hook for picot, ch 1, tr c in same space, * ch 6, s c in next loop,
repeat from * once, repeat from ** 5 times, ch 3 picot, ch 3, sl st in
top of next cluster st, repeat from beginning all around, cut thread.

    [Illustration: Center Edging & Corner #815 above.
    Instructions on Page 14.]




                   Tatted Round Motif and Edging #814


                          _Illustrated above_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls White or any color desired
  1 Handkerchief
  1 Shuttle

CENTER: R, 2 d, 8 p sep by 3 d, 1 d, cl r, tie and cut.

1st Row—Using ball and shuttle R, 3 d, p, 3 d, join to p of center, 3 d,
p, 3 d, cl r, turn. * Ch, 4 d, 3 p sep by 4 d, 4 d, turn. R, 3 d, join
to last p of last r made, 3 d, join to next p of center, 3 d, p, 3 d, cl
r, turn. Repeat from * 6 times, joining last r to 1st r. Ch, 4 d, 3 p
sep by 4 d, 4 d, tie and cut.

2nd Row—1ST MOTIF: * R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to
last p of last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. Repeat from * once,
tie and cut.

2nd MOTIF: R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of
last r, 2 d, 2 p sep by 2 d, 2 d, join to center p of ch of 1st row, 2
d, p, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, p, 2 d, join to center p of next ch of 1st row,
2 d, join to 2nd free p from joining of last r of 1st motif, 2 d, p, 2
d, p, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d,
6 d, cl r, tie and cut.

                                             _Continuation from page 14_

3rd MOTIF: R, 6 d, 2 p sep by 2 d, 2 d, join to 1st free p of lower r of
last motif, 2 d, 2 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of
last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl
r. R, 6 d, join to last p of last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r, tie
and cut.

4th MOTIF: R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of
last r, 2 d, 2 p sep by 2 d, 2 d, skip 1 ch of 1st row, join in center p
of next ch of 1st row, 2 d, p, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, p, 2 d, join to center
p of skipped ch of 1st row, 2 d, join to 3rd free p of lower r of
previous motif, 2 d, p, 2 d, p, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of
last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r, tie and cut. Repeat the 3rd and
4th motifs twice joining last motif to 1st motif to correspond.

Work 3 more corners in same manner. Sew one in each corner of
handkerchief as illustrated having the 3 full motifs extend over corner
and half of motif extend on each side. Cut out extra material from
underneath leaving about ⅛ inch to turn under.

EDGE: * R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of
last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. Repeat from * once, tie and cut.

2nd MOTIF: R, 6 d, 3 p sep by 2 d, 2 d, join to 4th free p of lower r of
previous motif, 2 d, p, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, join to last p of last r, 2
d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d, 5 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r. R, 6 d,
join to last p of last r, 2 d, 4 p sep by 2 d, 6 d, cl r, tie and cut.

Repeat the 2nd motif until strip is long enough to fit between corners.
Work 3 more strips in same manner and sew to each side of handkerchief
between corners.




           Gray Place Mats with Rose Border and Napkins #816


    [Illustration: {Place mats}]

 This set may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY products
                             listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

 “GEM” CROCHET COTTON Article    5 balls Shaded Pinks           steel 12
   35, size 30                     4 balls Nile Green
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   6 balls Shaded Pinks           steel 12
   20, size 30                     4 balls Nile Green
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   15 balls Shaded Pinks          steel 12
   30, size 30                     10 balls Nile Green

  Finished mats measure 10 inches × 18¼ inches.
  1½ yds. 35 inch Gray linen will make 4 place mats and 4 napkins.
  Each flower measures 1¼ inches.
  Inside of crocheted section should measure 10 inches × 16½ inches.

PLACE MAT—ROSE: With Shaded Pinks ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 5, d c
in ring, * ch 2, d c in ring, repeat from * 5 times, ch 2, join in 3rd
st of ch.

2nd Row—Ch 1 and over each loop work 1 s c, 4 d c, 1 s c, join.

3rd Row—* Ch 5, sl st in back of work between next 2 petals, repeat from
* all around.

4th Row—Ch 1 and over each loop work 1 s c, 7 d c, 1 s c, join.

5th Row—* Ch 6, sl st in back of work between next 2 petals, repeat from
* all around, cut thread.

6th Row—Attach Nile Green in loop and work 1 s c, 1 d c, 5 tr c, 1 d c,
1 s c in each loop, join, cut thread.

Work a 2nd flower joining it to 1st flower in last row as follows:
attach Green in loop, 1 s c, 1 d c, 3 tr c in same space, join to center
st of any Green petal of 1st flower (to join: drop loop off hook, insert
in center st of petal, pick up loop and pull through), 2 tr c, 1 d c, 1
s c in same space, 1 s c, 1 d c, 3 tr c in next loop of 2nd flower, join
to next petal of 1st flower, 2 tr c, 1 d c, 1 s c in same space of 2nd
flower, finish row same as 1st flower. Work 13 more flowers joining in
same manner leaving 2 petals free at top and 2 petals free at lower edge
between joinings. Last flower made will be corner flower.

Work another flower same as previous flowers but leaving 4 petals free
on outside edge of previous flower for corner when joining. Work 8 more
flowers joining same as 1st side. Work another flower and join to last
flower leaving 4 petals free on outside edge of last flower made for
corner. Work 13 flowers joining same as 1st side. Work another flower
and join to last flower leaving 4 petals free on outside edge of last
flower for corner. Work 7 more flowers joining same as 1st side and
joining last flower to 1st flower made leaving 4 petals free on outside
edge of 1st flower for corner.

Cut linen ½ inch larger all around than inside edge, turn under a narrow
hem and sew. Attach Nile Green at corner of linen, 3 s c in same space,
** 1 d c between the 2 petals of corner flower, 2 s c in same space on
linen, working the s c about ¹/₁₆ inch apart work 2 s c on linen, 1 tr c
in joining of corner flower and next flower to left of corner, 6 s c on
linen, drop loop from hook, insert in center of 1st free petal of 1st
flower to left of corner, pick up loop and pull through, 5 s c on linen,
join to center of next petal of same flower, * 6 s c on linen, 1 tr c in
joining of flowers, 6 s c on linen, join to center of 1st free petal of
next flower, 5 s c on linen, join to next free petal of same flower,
repeat from * to corner, 6 s c on linen, 1 tr c in joining of last
flower and next corner flower, 2 s c on linen, 3 s c in corner of linen,
repeat from ** all around, cut thread. Work other 3 mats in same manner.

                                             _Continuation from page 11_

NAPKINS: Cut linen 12 x 12 inches. Turn under a very narrow hem and sew.
With Nile Green work a row of s c around entire napkin working 5 s c in
each corner, join, cut thread. Attach Shaded Pinks at corner, ch 3, d c
in same space, ch 3, sl st in top of last d c for picot, d c in same
space, * ch 3, skip 2 s c, s c in next s c, ch 3, skip 2 s c, 2 d c in
next s c, ch 3, sl st in top of last d c for picot, d c in same space,
repeat from * all around working the 2 d c, picot, 1 d c at each corner
and ending row to correspond, join, cut thread. Work a rose same as on
mat and applique to corner as illustrated.




                   Green Place Mats and Napkins #817


    [Illustration: {Place mats}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, size 30
    5 balls Shaded Lt. Yellows or color desired
                                   or
  “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 30, size 30
    14 balls Shaded Lt. Yellows or color desired
  Each mat measures 12 inches x 18 inches finished.
  Each napkin measures 12 inches x 12 inches finished.
  Steel crochet hook No. 12
  1½ yds. 35 inch Dark Green linen will make 4 place mats and 4 napkins.

MOTIF: Ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 5, d c in ring, * ch 2, d c in
ring, repeat from * 5 times, ch 2, join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Row—* Ch 1, 1 s c, ch 3, 1 s c over next loop, repeat from * all
around, join.

3rd Row—Ch 3, d c in next ch 3 loop, ch 3, 5 d c over the d c just made,
* d c in next ch 1 loop over the d c of previous row, d c in next ch 3
loop, ch 3, 5 d c over last d c made, repeat from * 6 times, join.

4th Row—Ch 8, * s c in 1st d c of next scallop, ch 5, skip 4 d c of same
scallop, d c over next d c of previous row, ch 5, repeat from * all
around ending row with s c in 1st d c of next scallop, ch 5, join in 3rd
st of ch, cut thread.

Work a 2nd motif joining it to 1st motif in last row as follows: ch 8, s
c in 1st d c of next scallop, ch 5, skip 4 d c of same scallop, d c in
next d c of previous row, ch 2, join to corresponding loop of 1st motif,
ch 2, s c in 1st d c of next scallop of 2nd motif, ch 2, join to next
loop of 1st motif, ch 2, skip 4 d c of same scallop of 2nd motif, d c in
next d c, finish row same as 1st motif, join, cut thread. Join all
motifs in same manner having 6 loops free on each side of motif between
joinings to corner. Leave 2 loops free at lower edge of corner motif
when joining next side. Join all corner motifs in same manner and join
last motif to 1st motif. 36 motifs are required for each mat having 12
motifs on each long side and 6 motifs on each short side between
corners.

Inside Edge: Attach thread in 2nd free loop of motif to right of corner,
* 3 s c in same loop, ch 2, 3 s c in next loop of same motif, repeat
from * twice, ch 4, 1 tr c in next loop of same motif leaving last loop
of tr c on hook, 1 tr c in each of the 2 free loops of corner motif
leaving last loop of each tr c on hook, 1 tr c in 1st free loop of next
motif to left of corner leaving last loop of tr c on hook, thread over
and pull through all loops at one time (4 tr c cluster), ** ch 4, 3 s c
in next loop, * ch 2, 3 s c in next loop of same motif, repeat from *
twice, ch 4, tr c in next loop leaving last loop of tr c on hook, thread
over hook twice, insert in 1st free loop of next motif, thread over and
work off all loops 2 at a time (2 tr c cluster), repeat from ** all
around working all corners same as 1st corner, joining last ch 4 to 1st
s c.

Next Row—Sl st to next s c, ch 5, d c in next ch 2 loop, * ch 2, skip 1
sc, dc in next sc, ch 2, dc in next ch 2 loop, repeat from * once, ch 2,
skip 1 s c, d c in next s c, cluster st in the 4 tr c cluster at corner
(cluster st: 3 tr c in same space keeping last loop of each tr c on
hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time), ** skip 1 s c
of next motif, d c in next s c, * ch 2, d c in next ch 2 loop, ch 2,
skip 1 s c, d c in next s c, repeat from * twice, ch 2, d c in next
loop, ch 2, d c in the 2 tr c cluster, ch 2, d c in next loop, ch 2,
repeat from ** all around working all corners same as 1st corner and
ending row to correspond, join, cut thread.

                                             _Continuation from page 11_

Outside Edge: Attach thread in 1st free loop of motif to right of corner
motif, ch 3, sl st in next loop, * ch 3, 2 d c in same space keeping
last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at
one time (a 2 d c cluster st), ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for
picot, ch 3, sl st in same space with cluster st, ch 3, sl st in next
loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 3, sl st in 1st free loop of corner
motif, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same motif, * ch 3, 2 d c cluster st
in same space, picot, ch 3, sl st in same space, ch 3, sl st in next
loop of same motif, repeat from * 7 times, ch 3, sl st in 1st free loop
of next motif, ** ch 3, sl st in next loop, * ch 3, 2 d c cluster st in
same space, picot, ch 3, sl st in same space, ch 3, sl st in next loop,
repeat from * 3 times, ch 3, sl st in 1st free loop of next motif,
repeat from ** all around working around all corner motifs same as 1st
corner motif.

Cut linen 10 inches x 16 inches or ½ inch larger all around to fit
inside of edging. Turn under ½ inch hem all around and hemstitch if
preferred. Sew inner edge of edging to outside edge of place mat as
illustrated.

Napkins: Ch 785, d c in 8th st from hook (corner), * ch 2, skip 2 sts of
ch, d c in next st of ch, repeat from * 64 times, ch 5, d c in same
space (2nd corner), repeat from 1st * all around working next 2 corners
same as last corner and having 65 meshes on each side, not counting
corner loops, joining last ch 2 in 3rd st of ch, do not cut thread. Cut
linen 12 inches x 12 inches or ½ inch larger all around than inside of
meshes just worked. Turn under ½ inch hem all around and sew or
hemstitch if preferred. Sew edging around napkin matching corners.

2nd Row—sl st in corner loop, ** ch 3, 2 d c in same space keeping last
loop of each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one
time (a 2 d c cluster st), ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for picot,
ch 3, sl st in same space with cluster st, * ch 3, sl st in next mesh,
repeat from * once, repeat from ** all around, join, cut thread.




                Gray and Yellow Hairpin Lace Edging #818


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    1 ball Gray
    2 balls Yellow or any color desired
  1 Handkerchief 11 inches x 11 inches
  Hairpin Staple ¾ inch wide
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

See directions for hairpin lace given on page 2.

With Gray and leaving a small end work a length of hairpin lace to fit
around handkerchief (560 loops on each side of staple), cut thread
leaving an end, tie ends together being careful not to twist lace.
Attach Yellow in 1st loop of hairpin lace and keeping the twist in each
loop, ch 2, s d c in same space (s d c: thread over hook, insert in st,
pull through, thread over and pull through all loops at one time), * ch
3, small puff st in next loop (small puff st: thread over hook, insert
in loop, thread over and pull loop up about ⅛ inch, thread over hook,
insert in same space, thread over and pull loop up the same length,
thread over and pull through all 5 loops at one time), repeat from * 5
times, ** ch 3, small puff st through next 7 loops inserting hook
through all 7 loops at one time, * ch 3, small puff st in next loop,
repeat from * 6 times, repeat from ** across lace ending row with ch 3,
small puff st through next 7 loops, ch 3, join in 1st puff st.

Sl st to center of 2nd loop, ch 7, d c in next loop, ch 4, ** tr c in
next loop keeping the last loop of tr c on hook, skip 6 loops, tr c in
next loop keeping the last loop of tr c on hook, thread over and pull
through all loops at one time (corner), ch 4, d c in next loop, ch 4, d
c in next loop, * ch 4, thread over hook twice, insert in next loop,
pull loop through and work off 2 loops twice, thread over hook twice,
skip 2 loops, insert hook in next loop, pull loop through, thread over
and work off all loops 2 at a time, ch 4, d c in next loop, ch 4, d c in
next loop, ch 4, d c in next loop, ch 4, d c in next loop, repeat from *
7 times, ch 4, tr c in next loop keeping last loop of tr c on hook,
thread over hook twice, skip 2 loops, insert hook in next loop, pull
loop through, thread over and work off all loops 2 at a time, ch 4, d c
in next loop, ch 4, d c in next loop, ch 4, repeat from ** all around
ending row to correspond and joining last ch 4 in 3rd st of ch 7, cut
thread.

With Yellow crochet a row of s c around handkerchief working 3 s c in
each corner. Sew hairpin lace around handkerchief sewing corners of lace
to match corners of handkerchief.

OUTSIDE EDGE: Keeping the twist in the loops, attach Yellow through the
7 loops to right of 7 corner loops and work a small puff st through same
7 loops, ch 3, small puff st in next loop, ch 5 and work 1 small puff st
in each of the next 6 loops with ch 5 between each puff st, * ch 3,
small puff st through next 7 loops, ch 3, small puff st in each of the
next 7 loops with ch 3 between each puff st, repeat from * all around
working all corners same as 1st corner, ending row with ch 1, s d c in
same st as beginning.

Next Row—Ch 3, d c in next loop, * ch 6, sl st in 3rd st from hook for
picot, ch 3, small puff st in next loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 6, sl
st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 3, ** 1 d c in each of the next 2
loops keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and pull
through all loops at one time, * ch 5, sl st in 3rd st from hook for
picot, ch 2, small puff st in next loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 5, sl
st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 2, repeat from ** 8 times, 1 d c in
each of the next 2 loops keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread
over and pull through all loops at one time, repeat from 1st * all
around ending row to correspond, join, cut thread.




                   Red & White Periwinkle Edging #819


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    1 ball each White and Bright Red
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

With Red ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1 and work 10 s c in ring, join,
drop Red.

Attach White in 1st s c, * ch 4, 3 d tr c (3 times over hook) in same
space, 3 d tr c in next s c, ch 4, sl st in same space, sl st in next s
c, repeat from * 4 times, cut White thread.

Next Row—Pick up Red, ch 4, 1 s c in each of the 6 d tr c of 1st petal,
ch 4, sl st in 1st row between petals, * ch 4, 1 s c in each of the 6 d
tr c of next petal, ch 4, sl st in 1st row between petals, repeat from *
3 times, cut thread. Work a 2nd flower joining center of one petal to
center of any petal of 1st flower in last row. Work a 3rd flower joining
to 2nd flower in same manner leaving 1 petal free at lower edge and 2
petals at outside edge. Work a 4th flower same as 1st flower.

Sew the 3 flowers in corner as illustrated leaving 2 entire petals of
side flowers extend over the hem of handkerchief.

Sew 4th flower between the 2 upper flowers as illustrated. Attach White
in hem next to flower to left of corner flower and working around
handkerchief, * ch 5, skip ¼ inch space, s c in next space, repeat from
* to corner having an uneven number of loops on side, ch 7, s c in same
space (corner), * ch 5, skip ¼ inch space, s c in next space, repeat
from * all around having an uneven number of loops on each side not
counting corner loop and working all corners same as 1st corner, working
to flower on last side, cut thread.

2nd Row—Attach White in 1st loop on opposite side, * ch 6, cluster st in
next loop (cluster st: 4 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d c
on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time), ch 6, s c
in next loop, repeat from * across side to corner loop, ch 6, 2 cluster
sts with ch 6 between in corner loop, ch 6, s c in next loop, * ch 6,
cluster st in next loop, ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * all
around to flower at opposite side working all corners same as 1st
corner, cut thread.

3rd Row—Attach Red in same space where 1st row was started, ch 6, s c in
top of 1st cluster st, ch 3, s c in same space, ch 6, sl st in next s c,
* ch 6, s c in top of next cluster st, ch 3, s c in same space, ch 6, sl
st in next s c, repeat from * to the s c before corner, ch 6, s c in top
of 1st cluster st at corner, ch 3, s c in same space, ch 5, s c in next
loop, ch 5, s c in top of next cluster st at corner, ch 3, s c in same
space, * ch 6, sl st in next s c, ch 6, s c in top of next cluster st,
ch 3, s c in same space, repeat from * around next 3 sides working all
corners same as 1st corner and working to flower on last side, cut
thread.




         Lavender and Pink Edging with Knot Stitch Border #8110


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls Lavender
    1 ball Shaded Pinks
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach Lavender in corner and work a double knot st (double knot st: *
draw up a ³/₁₆ inch loop on hook, thread over hook and pull through loop
forming a ch st, s c over single loop of st, repeat from * once), s c in
same space, * work a double knot st, skip 3 hemstitched spaces or about
⁵/₁₆ inch space, s c in next space, repeat from * all around having an
uneven number of double knot sts on each side without counting corner
double knot st working all corners same as 1st corner and ending row
with double knot st, s c in same space as beginning.

2nd Row—Double knot st, s c in loop to right of s c of corner double
knot st, double knot st, s c in loop to left of s c of same corner
double knot st (an increase), * double knot st, s c in center s c of
next double knot st, repeat from * all around increasing 1 double knot
st at each corner. Without joining rows work 1 more row of double knot
sts increasing 1 double knot st in each corner ending row with double
knot st, s c in center s c of double knot st to right of corner double
knot st, cut thread.

4th Row—Attach Shaded Pinks in same space, * ch 5, sl st in 3rd st from
hook for picot, repeat from * once, ch 2, sl st in loop to right of s c
of corner double knot st, ch 5, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch
5, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 2 (double picot loop), sl st
in loop to left of s c of same double knot st, * work a double picot
loop, sl st in center s c of next double knot st, repeat from * all
around to last free knot st working all corners same as 1st corner, work
a double picot loop, sl st in center of 1st double picot loop made.

5th Row—Double picot loop, sl st between picots of corner loop, double
picot loop, sl st in same space, * double picot loop, sl st between
picots of next double picot loop, repeat from * all around working all
corners same as 1st corner and joining last double picot loop in center
of loop to right of corner, cut thread.

6th Row—Attach Lavender in same space, work a double knot st, s c
between the 2 picots of corner loop, double knot st, s c in same space,
* double knot st, s c between picots of next loop, repeat from * all
around working all corners same as 1st corner. Without joining rows work
3 more rows of double knot sts increasing 1 double knot st at each
corner ending last row with s c in center of double knot st to right of
corner double knot st, cut thread.

Next Row—Attach Shaded Pinks in same space, ch 3, tr c in center s c of
corner double knot st, ch 3, sl st in top of tr c for picot, * ch 2, tr
c in same space, ch 3, sl st in top of last tr c for picot, repeat from
* 3 times, * ch 3, s c in center s c of next double knot st, ch 3, tr c
in center s c of next double knot st, ch 3, sl st in top of tr c for
picot, ch 2, tr c in same space, picot, ch 2, tr c in same space, picot,
repeat from * all around working all corners same as 1st corner, cut
thread.




         Green Handkerchief with White Rice Stitch Edging #8111


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    4 balls White or color desired
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach thread in 1st hemstitched space to right of corner, ch 8, 2 d c
in 4th st from hook leaving last loop of each d c on hook, thread over
and pull through all loops at one time, ** 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in
corner space, ch 4, 2 d c in 4th st from hook leaving last loop of each
d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time (a rice
st), tr c in next hemstitched space, * work a rice st, skip 3
hemstitched spaces (about ⁵/₁₆ inch), 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next
space, work a rice st, skip 3 hemstitched spaces, tr c in next space,
repeat from * across side of handkerchief ending with 1 tr c in
hemstitched space to right of next corner, work a rice st, repeat from
** all around ending row with rice st, join in 4th st of ch 8.

2nd Row—Ch 7, tr c in same space, rice st, 4 tr c with ch 3 between each
tr c in corner loop, * rice st, 2 tr c with ch 3 between in next tr c,
rice st, tr c in next loop, repeat from * all around working all corners
same as 1st corner ending row with rice st, join in 4th st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st into loop, ch 8, rice st in 4th st from hook, 1 tr c, ch
3, 1 tr c in next loop, ch 3, 1 tr c, ch 5, 1 tr c in next loop, ch 3, 1
tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next loop, * rice st, tr c in next loop, rice st,
1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c (shell) in next tr c, repeat from * all around
working all corners same as 1st corner and ending row with rice st, join
in 4th st of ch.

4th Row—Ch 7, tr c in same space, rice st, shell in next loop, ch 3,
shell in next loop, ch 3, 1 tr c, ch 5, 1 tr c in next loop, ch 3, shell
in next loop, ch 3, shell in next loop, * rice st, shell in next tr c,
rice st, 1 tr c in next shell, repeat from * all around working all
corners same as 1st corner and joining last rice st in 4th st of ch.

5th Row—Ch 8, rice st in 4th st from hook, shell in next shell, ch 3,
skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, ch 3, skip 1 loop, 1 tr c, ch 5, 1 tr
c in next loop, * ch 3, skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, repeat from *
once, * rice st, tr c in next shell, rice st, shell in next tr c, repeat
from * all around working all corners same as 1st corner and joining
last rice st in 4th st of ch.

6th Row—Ch 7, tr c in same space, rice st, shell in next shell, ch 3,
skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, ch 3, skip 1 loop, shell in next loop,
ch 5, shell in same space, * ch 3, skip 1 loop, shell in next shell,
repeat from * once, rice st, shell in next tr c, rice st, 1 tr c in next
shell, repeat from * all around working all corners same as 1st corner,
ending row to correspond, joining last rice st in 4th st of ch.

7th Row—Ch 8, rice st in 4th st from hook, shell in next shell, * ch 3,
skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, repeat from * once, ch 3, 1 tr c, ch
5, 1 tr c in next loop, ch 3, shell in next shell, * ch 3, skip 1 loop,
shell in next shell, repeat from * once, * rice st, tr c in next shell,
rice st, shell in next tr c, repeat from * all around working all
corners same as 1st corner and joining last rice st in 4th st of ch.

8th Row—Ch 7, tr c in same space, rice st, shell in next shell, * ch 3,
skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, repeat from * once, ch 3, skip 1 loop,
1 tr c, ch 5, 1 tr c in next loop, * ch 3, skip 1 loop, shell in next
shell, repeat from * twice, * rice st, shell in next tr c, rice st, 1 tr
c in next shell, repeat from * all around working all corners same as
1st corner joining last rice st in 4th st of ch.

9th Row—Ch 8, rice st in 4th st from hook, shell in next shell, * ch 3,
skip 1 loop, shell in next shell, repeat from * once, ch 3, skip 1 loop,
shell in next loop, ch 5, shell in same space, * ch 3, skip 1 loop,
shell in next shell, repeat from * twice, * rice st, tr c in next shell,
rice st, shell in next tr c, repeat from * all around working all
corners same as 1st corner and joining last rice st in 4th st of ch.

10th Row—Ch 4, cluster st in next shell (cluster st: 3 tr c in same
space keeping last loop of each tr c on hook, thread over and pull
through all loops at one time), ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for
picot, ch 3, cluster st in same shell, picot, ch 4, skip 1 loop, s c in
next shell, ch 4, skip 1 loop, cluster st in next shell, picot, ch 3,
cluster st in same shell, picot, ch 4, skip 1 loop, s c in next shell,
ch 4, cluster st in corner loop, picot, ch 3, cluster st in same space,
picot, ch 4, s c in next shell, ch 4, skip 1 loop, cluster st in next
shell, picot, ch 3, cluster st in same shell, picot, ch 4, skip 1 loop,
s c in next shell, ch 4, skip 1 loop, cluster st in next shell, picot,
ch 3, cluster st in same shell, picot, ch 4, s c in next tr c, * ch 4,
cluster st in next shell, picot, ch 3, cluster st in same shell, picot,
ch 4, s c in next tr c, repeat from * all around working all corners
same as 1st corner ending row to correspond, join, cut thread.




                        Narrow Pink Edging #8112


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    1 ball Med. Pink
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach thread about ¼ inch from any corner, * ch 5, skip about ¼ inch
space, s c in next space, repeat from * to about ¼ inch from next corner
having an odd number of sts, ch 7, cluster st in corner space (cluster
st: * 2 d c in same space keeping last loop of each st on hook, thread
over and work off all loops at one time), ch 5, cluster st in same
space, ch 7, skip about ¼ inch space, s c in next space, repeat from 1st
* all around ending row with ch 3, d c in same space as beginning (this
brings thread in position for next row).

2nd Row—Ch 5, d c in d c, * ch 3, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in
center st of next loop, ch 3, 2 d c with ch 3 between in center st of
next loop, repeat from * across row to loop before corner, ch 3, then in
corner loop work 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between, ch 3, 2 d c with ch 3
between, ch 3, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between, ch 3, 2 d c with ch 3
between in center st of next loop, repeat from 1st * all around, ch 3,
join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st in loop, * ch 6, sl st in 4th st from hook for picot, ch
2, skip one ch 3 loop, s c in next loop, repeat from * to 2nd loop
before corner group, * ch 6, sl st in 4th st from hook for picot, ch 2,
skip 1 loop, cluster st in next loop, ch 6, sl st in 4th st from hook
for picot, ch 2, cluster st in same space, repeat from * twice, ch 6, sl
st in 4th st from hook for picot, ch 2, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop,
repeat from 1st * all around, cut thread.

    [Illustration: #818 See Pg. 6
    #819 See Pg. 6
    #8110 See Pg. 6
    #8111 See Pg. 7
    #8112 See Pg. 7
    #8113 See Pg. 11]




                   Pineapple Pillow Case Edging #8118


                        _Illustrated on page 13_

    This edging may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                         products listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

 “GEM” CROCHET COTTON Article    3 balls White or any color     steel 12
   35, size 30                     desired
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   3 balls White or any color     steel 12
   20, size 30                     desired
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   8 balls White or any color     steel 12
   30, size 30                     desired
 1 pair Pillow Cases

Ch 37, 2 d c in 4th st from hook, ch 2, 3 d c in next st of ch, * ch 3,
skip 3 sts of ch, 3 d c in next st, ch 2, 3 d c in next st (shell),
repeat from * once, ch 1, skip 1 st of ch, d c in next st, * ch 3, skip
1 st of ch, s c in next st, ch 3, skip 1 st of ch, d c in next st,
repeat from * 3 times, ch 2, d c in end st, ch 5, turn.

2nd Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 3 times,
ch 1, d c in same space, ch 1, shell in shell, ch 3, 11 tr c in next
shell, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 4, turn.

3rd Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c between 1st 2 tr c, * ch 4, s c
between next 2 tr c, repeat from * 8 times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 1,
d c in next single d c, ch 1, d c in next d c, * ch 3, s c in next mesh,
ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 3 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch,
ch 5, turn.

4th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 4 times,
shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 4, s c in next
loop, repeat from * 7 times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 4, turn.

5th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 4, s c
in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 1, d c in
next single d c, * ch 3, s c in next mesh, ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat
from * 4 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

6th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 4 times,
ch 1, d c in same space, ch 1, shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of
pineapple, * ch 4, s c in next loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 3, shell
in shell, ch 4, turn.

7th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 4, s c
in next loop, repeat from * 4 times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 1, d c in
next d c, ch 1, d c in next d c, * ch 3, 1 s c in next mesh, ch 3, d c
in next d c, repeat from * 4 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5,
turn.

8th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 5 times,
shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 4, s c in next
loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 4, turn.

9th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 4, 1 s
c in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 1, d c in
next d c, * ch 3, s c in next mesh, ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from *
5 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

10th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 5
times, ch 1, d c in same space, ch 1, shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st
loop of pineapple, * ch 4, s c in next loop, repeat from * once, ch 3,
shell in shell, ch 4, turn.

11th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, ch 4, s c
in next loop, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 1, d c in next single d c, ch 1,
d c in next d c, * ch 3, s c in next mesh, ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat
from * 5 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

12th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 6
times, shell in shell, ch 3, s c in remaining loop of pineapple, ch 3,
shell in shell, ch 4, turn.

13th Row—Shell in shell, ch 1, shell in next shell, ch 1, d c in next
single d c, * ch 3, s c in next mesh, ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from
* 6 times, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

14th Row—D c in next d c, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 6
times, ch 1, d c in same space, ch 1, shell in shell, ch 2, s c in
center of next shell, ch 2, turn.

15th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, skip 1 single d c, shell in next d c, ch
3, skip 1 d c, shell in next d c, ch 1, d c in next d c, * ch 3, s c in
next mesh, ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from * 3 times, ch 2, d c in
3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

Repeat from 2nd row for length desired. Work a row of s c across top of
edging. Sew to edge of pillow case. Work other pillow case in same
manner.




                    Green Turkish Towel Edging #8117


                        _Illustrated on page 12_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40
                                   or
  “DE LUXE” CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
    1 ball Shaded Nile Greens or color desired
  1 Turkish Towel
  Steel crochet hook No. 7

Ch 12, 2 d c in 7th st from hook, ch 1, 2 d c in next st of ch, ch 1,
skip 2 sts of ch, 2 d c in next st, ch 1, 2 d c in next st, ch 3, turn.

2nd Row—2 d c, ch 1, 2 d c (shell) in next ch 1 loop, ch 1, skip next ch
1 loop, 2 d c, ch 1, 2 d c in next ch 1 loop, ch 1, d c in end loop, ch
4, turn.

3rd Row—Shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 6, sl st in the ch 3 of previous row, ch 2, turn.

4th Row—8 s d c over loop just made (s d c: thread over hook, insert in
space, pull loop through, thread over and pull through all loops at one
time), ch 1, shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of end ch, ch 4, turn.

5th Row—Shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 6, sl st in the ch 1 of previous row next to the 1st scallop,
ch 2, turn.

6th Row—4 s d c over loop just made, ch 6, drop loop from hook, insert
hook in center st of previous scallop, pick up loop and pull through, ch
2, 4 s d c over loop just made, ch 3, sl st in top of last s d c for
picot, 4 s d c over same loop, 4 s d c over remainder of previous loop,
ch 1, shell in center of next shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 4, turn.

7th Row—Shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 6, sl st in the ch 1 of previous row, ch 3, turn.

8th Row—8 d c over loop just made, ch 1, shell in center of shell, ch 1,
shell in center of next shell, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 4, turn.

9th Row—Shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, shell in center of next
shell, ch 1, skip the 2 d c of same shell, 1 d c in each of the next 8 d
c with ch 1 between each d c, ch 1, sl st in 4th s d c where previous
scallop is joined, turn.

10th Row—Ch 4, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, s c between
1st 2 d c, * ch 4, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, s c
between next 2 d c, repeat from * 6 times, ch 3, shell in center of next
shell, ch 1, shell in center of next shell, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of ch,
ch 4, turn.

Repeat from 3rd row for length desired.

Sew to end of towel.




                        Guest Towel Edging #8116


                        _Illustrated on page 13_

    This edging may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                         products listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

 “GEM” CROCHET COTTON Article    1 ball Shaded Light Yellows    steel 11
   35, size 30                     or any color desired           or 12
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   1 ball Shaded Light Yellows    steel 11
   30, size 30                     or any color desired           or 12
 1 Guest Towel

Ch 11, d c in 4th st from hook, ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch, d c in next st
of ch, ch 3, skip 3 sts of ch, 5 d c in next st, ch 3, turn.

2nd Row—Sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, * ch 3, sl st in 3rd st
from hook for picot, repeat from * once, 5 d c in 1st d c, ch 3, skip 3
d c of same group, s c in next d c, ch 3, d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c
in next d c, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 3, turn.

3rd Row—D c in next d c, ch 2, d c in next d c, ch 3, 5 d c in next d c,
ch 3, turn.

Repeat the 2nd and 3rd rows for length desired.

Sew to end of towel.

            TATTING ABBREVIATIONS

  R                Ring
  L R              Large Ring
  S R              Small Ring
  D or D S         Double or Double Stitch
  P                Picot
  S P              Short Picot
  L P              Long Picot
  Ch               Chain
  Sp               Space
  Sep              Separate
  Cl               Close




               Fuchsia & White Hairpin Lace Edging #8113


                      _Illustrated on center pages_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls each White and Fuchsia or any contrasting color
  1 Handkerchief 11 inches x 11 inches
  Hairpin staple ½ inch wide
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

See directions for hairpin lace on page 2.

With White work a strip of hairpin lace to fit around handkerchief
(about 480 loops on each side of staple).

Attach Fuchsia through 1st 3 loops of hairpin lace keeping the twist in
the loops, * ch 4, s c through next 3 loops, repeat from * across lace,
cut thread.

Sew this side to handkerchief easing in a little fullness at each
corner.

With White work another length of hairpin lace same as 1st length
allowing 6 loops more for each corner.

Join 2nd length to 1st length as follows: attach Fuchsia through 1st 3
loops of 1st length, ch 2, s d c in same space (s d c: thread over hook,
insert in st, pull through, thread over and pull through all loops at
one time), ch 2, thread over hook, insert in 1st 3 loops of 2nd length,
thread over and pull loop up about ⅛ inch, thread over, insert through
same 3 loops, thread over and pull loop up the same length, thread over
and pull through all 5 loops at one time, * ch 2, thread over hook,
insert through next 3 loops of 1st length, thread over and pull loop up
about ⅛ inch, thread over hook, insert through same 3 loops, pull loop
up the same length, thread over and pull through all 5 loops at one time
(small puff st) ch 2, small puff st through next 3 loops of 2nd length,
repeat from * to the 3 loops before corner 3 loops of 1st length, ch 2,
small puff st through next 3 loops of 1st length, ch 2, small puff st
through next 3 loops of 2nd length, ch 2, small puff st through same 3
loops of 1st length, * ch 2, small puff st through next 3 loops of 2nd
length, ch 2, small puff st through next 3 loops of 1st length, ch 2,
small puff st through next 3 loops of 2nd length, ch 2, small puff st
through same 3 loops of 1st length, repeat from * once, * ch 2, small
puff st through next 3 loops of 2nd length, ch 2, small puff st through
next 3 loops of 1st length, repeat from * across each side, working all
corners same as 1st corner, join, cut thread.

Next Row—Attach Fuchsia in 1st of the 3 corner loops, ** ch 5, s c in
next loop, ch 5, s c in next loop, * ch 4, s c through next 3 loops,
repeat from * to 1st loop at next corner, repeat from ** all around
ending row to correspond, ch 4, join.

Next Row—sl st into loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space keeping last loop of
each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time, ch
5, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 2, cluster st in same space
(cluster st: 3 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d c on hook,
thread over and pull through all loops at one time), ch 5, sl st in 3rd
st from hook for picot, ch 2 (picot loop), 2 cluster sts with picot loop
between in next loop, * picot loop, cluster st in next loop, repeat from
* all around working all corners same as 1st corner ending row to
correspond, join, cut thread.

          CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  ch            Chain
  st            Stitch
  sts           Stitches
  sl-st         Slip st.
  s c           Single Crochet
  s d c         Short Double Crochet
  d c           Double Crochet
  tr c          Treble Crochet
  d tr c        Double Treble Crochet
  tr tr c       Triple Treble Crochet

* Asterisk—This sign indicates that the instructions immediately
      following are to be repeated the given number of times plus the
      original.

** Are used in the same way.

    [Illustration: Shaded Green Edging #8117
    Instructions on Page 10
    Gray Towel Edging #8115
    Instructions on Page 13]




                     Motif Pillow Case Edging #8119


    [Illustration: {Pillow case edging}]

    This edging may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                         products listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

 “GEM” CROCHET COTTON Article    3 balls Shaded Peaches or      steel 12
   35, size 30                     color desired
                                    or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   4 balls Shaded Peaches or      steel 12
   20, size 30                     color desired
                                    or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   8 balls Shaded Peaches or      steel 12
   30, size 30                     color desired
 1 pair Pillow Cases

Ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1 and work 8 s c in ring, join in 1st s c.

2nd Row—Ch 6, d c in next s c, ch 3, d c in next s c, repeat from * 5
times, ch 3, join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st to center of loop, ch 4, 2 tr c in same space keeping last
loop of each tr c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one
time, * ch 3, cluster st in next loop (cluster st: 3 tr c in same space
keeping last loop of each tr c on hook, thread over and pull through all
loops at one time), ch 10, cluster st in same space (corner), ch 3,
cluster st in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 3, 2 cluster sts with
ch 10 between in next loop, ch 3, join in top of 1st cluster st.

4th Row—Ch 1, ** 3 s c in next loop, ch 3, sl st in top of last s c for
picot, 2 s c in same space, 3 s c in next loop, * ch 3, sl st in top of
last s c for picot, 3 s c in same space, repeat from * twice, 3 s c,
picot, 2 s c in next loop, repeat from ** 3 times, join.

5th Row—Ch 8, tr c in space over next cluster st of 3rd row, ** ch 4, d
c in center picot of corner loop, ch 4, tr c in same picot, ch 4, d c in
same picot, * ch 4, tr c in space over next cluster st of 3rd row,
repeat from * twice, repeat from ** all around ending row to correspond,
join in 4th st of ch.

6th Row—Ch 1, s c in same space, ch 3, sl st in top of last s c for
picot, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next tr c, ch 3, sl st in top of last
s c for picot, ** 4 s c in next loop, s c in next d c, ch 3, sl st in
top of last s c for picot, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next tr c, ch 7,
sl st in top of same s c, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next d c, ch 3, sl
st in top of last s c for picot, * 4 s c in next loop, s c in next tr c,
ch 3, sl st in top of last s c for picot, repeat from twice, repeat from
** all around ending row to correspond, cut thread.

Work a 2nd motif joining it to 1st motif in last row as follows: ch 1, s
c in same space, ch 3 picot, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next tr c, ch 3
picot, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next d c, ch 3 picot, 4 s c in next
loop, s c in next tr c, ch 3, join to ch 7 picot at corner of 1st motif,
ch 3, sl st in top of same s c on 2nd motif, 4 s c in next loop, s c in
next d c, ch 1, join to next picot of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, *
4 s c in next loop of 2nd motif, s c in next tr c, ch 1, join to next
picot of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, repeat from * twice, 4 s c in
next loop, s c in next d c, ch 1, join to next picot of 1st motif, ch 1,
complete picot, 4 s c in next loop, s c in next tr c, ch 3, join to ch 7
picot at next corner of 1st motif, ch 3, sl st in top of same s c,
finish motif same as 1st motif.

Work 3rd motif same as 1st motif.

Work 4th motif in same manner but joining 1 side of 4th motif to 1 side
of 3rd motif same as before and joining the next side of 4th motif to
side of 1st motif of 1st 2 motifs made as illustrated.

Work 28 more motifs and join in same manner.

Sew to lower edge of pillow case. Cut away extra material from
underneath motifs. Work other pillow case in same manner.

    [Illustration: Shaded Yellow Guest Towel Edging #8116
    Instructions on Page 10
    Pineapple Pillow Edging #8118
    Instructions on Page 10]




                        Gray Towel Edging #8115


    [Illustration: Towel edging]

    This edging may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                         products listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

 “DE LUXE” CROCHET COTTON        1 ball each Peach and Lt.      steel 7
   Article 346                     Green
               or
 “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON        1 ball each Pink and Nile      steel 7
   Article 40                      Green
               or
 “STAR” PEARL COTTON Article     2 balls Lt. Peach 1 ball Nile  steel 7
   90, size 5                      Green
 1 Turkish Towel

With Peach ch 12, 2 d c in 6th st from hook, ch 2, 2 d c in next st, ch
4, skip 4 sts of ch, sl st in last st, ch 3, turn.

2nd Row—9 d c in 1st loop, ch 1, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in next
loop, ch 5, turn.

3rd Row—Shell in center of shell, ch 1, 1 d c in each d c and 1 d c in
3rd st of end ch, ch 4, turn.

4th Row—1 d c in each d c with ch 1 between each d c, ch 2, shell in
center of shell, ch 5, turn.

5th Row—Shell in shell, ch 2, 1 d c in each d c with ch 1 between each d
c, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 3, turn.

6th Row—* D c in next mesh, d c in next d c, repeat from * 8 times, ch
3, shell in shell, ch 5, turn.

7th Row—Shell in shell, ch 3, s c in 1st d c, * ch 4, skip 1 d c, s c in
next d c, repeat from * 8 times, ch 4, turn.

8th Row—S c in 1st loop, * ch 4, s c in next loop, repeat from * 7
times, ch 3, shell in shell, ch 5, turn.

9th Row—Shell in shell, ch 4, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, turn.
Repeat from 2nd row for length desired. Sew to lower edge of towel as
illustrated.

Attach Green in corner of towel to right of work, ch 1, 1 s c in each of
the next 2 d c of shell, 2 s c in next loop, ch 3, sl st in last s c for
picot, 1 s c in same loop, 1 s c in each of the next 2 d c, 2 s c, ch 3
picot, 1 s c in next loop, repeat from * 8 times, ** 3 s c, ch 3 picot,
2 s c in loop at point, working downward * 2 s c, ch 3 picot, 1 s c over
next d c, repeat from * 3 times, 1 s c over next d c, 1 s c over s c
between scallops, ch 3 picot, 1 s c in same loop with s c of previous
row, * 2 s c, ch 3 picot, 1 s c in next loop, repeat from * 6 times,
repeat from ** across row finishing opposite side to correspond.




                        Shaded Pink Edging #8114


    This edging may be made with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
                         products listed below:

            Material                        Quantity             Size of
                                                                  Needle

  “GEM” CROCHET COTTON Article   1 ball Shaded Pinks or color   steel 11
            35, size 30            desired                        or 12
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   1 ball Shaded Pinks or color   steel 11
   20, size 30                     desired                        or 12
               or
 “STAR” CROCHET COTTON Article   1 ball Shaded Pinks or color   steel 11
   30, size 30                     desired                        or 12
 1 Guest Towel

Ch 4, d c in 4th st from hook, ch 2, 2 d c in same space, ch 5, turn.

2nd Row—2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in the ch 2 loop, ch 5, turn.

3rd & 4th Rows—Shell in center of shell, ch 5, turn.

5th Row—Shell in center of shell, ch 3, working along side of edging,
work 5 d c with ch 3 between each d c in next ch 5 loop, ch 3, s c in
next ch 5 loop on side, ch 3, turn.

6th Row—Cluster st in next d c (cluster st: 3 d c in same space keeping
last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at
one time), ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for picot, * ch 4, cluster
st in next d c, picot, repeat from * 3 times, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch
3, shell in center of shell, ch 5, turn.

Next 4 Rows—Shell in center of shell, ch 5, turn. Repeat from 5th row
for length desired. Sew to end of towel.




                    Crocheted Motif and Edging #815


                        _Illustrated on page 3_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls White or color desired
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1 and work 8 s c in ring, join.

2nd Row—Ch 3, 2 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d c on hook,
thread over and pull through all loops at one time, * ch 5, cluster st
in next s c (cluster st: 3 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d
c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time), repeat
from * 6 times, ch 5, join.

3rd Row—Sl st to center of loop, * ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat from *
all around.

4th Row—Sl st into loop, ch 3 (counts as part of 1st cluster st) and
work 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in same space, * ch 7, 2 cluster
sts with ch 3 between in same space, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 3, sl st
in top of s c for picot, ch 5, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in next
loop, repeat from * twice, ch 7, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in same
space, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 3, sl st in top of s c for picot, ch
5, join in 1st cluster st, cut thread.

Work a 2nd motif joining it to 1st motif in last row as follows: sl st
into loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d c on
hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time, ch 3, cluster
st in same space, ch 3, join to corner loop of 1st motif, ch 3, 2
cluster sts with ch 3 between in same space of 2nd motif, ch 2, join in
next ch 5 loop of 1st motif, ch 2, s c in next loop of 2nd motif, ch 3,
sl st in top of s c for picot, ch 2, s c in next loop of 1st motif, ch
2, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in next loop of 2nd motif, ch 3, join
to corner loop of 1st motif, ch 3, 2 cluster sts with ch 3 between in
same space of 2nd motif, finish motif same as 1st motif. Join 3rd motif
to 2nd motif and 4th motif to 3rd and 1st motifs in same manner.
Applique motifs to corner of handkerchief having the 2 sides even with
hem of handkerchief. Cut away material from underneath motifs.

EDGE: Attach thread on linen to left of corner, 1 s c in same space, * 2
s c in next space, 1 s c in next space, repeat from * all around to
opposite side of motif, working 3 s c in each corner of handkerchief.

Next Row—Working on motif, * ch 6, skip 2 cluster sts, s c in next loop,
ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 6, s c in corner loop,
ch 6, s c in same space, * ch 6, skip 2 cluster sts, s c in next loop,
ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 6, s c in corner loop, *
ch 6, skip 3 s c, s c in next s c, repeat from * across side to corner
having an uneven number of loops, ch 6, s c in same space at corner,
continue in same manner all around working all corners same as 2nd
corner.

Next Row—Sl st to center st of 1st loop of motif, s c in same space, *
ch 5, cluster st in next loop, ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for
picot, ch 3, cluster st in same loop, picot in top of cluster, ch 5, s c
in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 5, cluster st in corner loop,
picot, * ch 3, cluster st in same space, picot, repeat from * once, * ch
5, s c in next loop, ch 5, cluster st in next loop, picot, ch 3, cluster
st in same space, picot, repeat from * 3 times, ** ch 3, s c in next
loop, * ch 3, cluster st in next loop, picot, ch 3, cluster st in same
space, picot, ch 3, s c in next loop, repeat from * to loop before
corner loop, ch 3, cluster st in corner loop, picot, * ch 3, cluster st
in same space, picot, repeat from * once, repeat from ** all around
ending row to correspond and working the 2 remaining corners same as 2nd
corner.




            Handkerchief with White Rice Stitch Edging #8120


                       _Illustrated on back cover_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    3 balls White or color desired
  1 Handkerchief 11 inches square
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach thread in 4th space to right from corner, ch 6, d c in same
space, skip 2 spaces (about ¼ inch), 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c in next space,
ch 4, 2 d c in 4th st from hook keeping last loop of each d c on hook,
thread over and pull through all loops at one time (a rice st), 1 d c,
ch 3, 1 d c (shell) in corner space, ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook,
1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c (shell) in next space, ** skip 2 spaces, shell in
next space, * ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, skip 2 spaces, shell in
next space, skip 2 spaces, shell in next space, repeat from * to space
before next corner ending with the 2 shells having the last shell in
space before the corner, work a rice st, shell in corner space, work a
rice st, shell in next space, repeat from ** all around working all
corners same as 1st corner, ending row with rice st, join in 3rd st of
ch.

2nd Row—Sl st into loop, ch 6, d c in same space, shell in next shell,
work a rice st, shell in corner shell, * work a rice st, shell in next
shell, shell in next shell, repeat from * all around working all corners
same as 1st corner and joining last rice st in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st into shell, ch 6, d c in same space, shell in next shell,
work a rice st, 2 d c with ch 3 between in corner loop, ch 5, 2 d c with
ch 3 between in same space, * rice st, shell in each of the next 2
shells, repeat from * all around working all corners same as 1st corner,
joining last rice st in 3rd st of ch.

4th Row—Same as last row but working a shell in each of the 3 loops at
each corner.

5th Row—Same as last row but working a shell in each shell at each
corner.

6th Row—Work a shell in each shell and a rice st over each rice st
working 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c, ch 5, 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c in center shell at
each corner. Repeat the 5th and 6th rows once.

9th Row—Sl st into shell, ch 7, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch
1, d c in same space, d c in next shell, ch 4, sl st in 3rd st from hook
for picot, ch 1, d c in same space, rice st, * d c in next shell, ch 4,
sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, d c in same space, repeat
from * 6 times, * rice st, work 1 d c, ch 1, ch 3 picot, ch 1, 1 d c in
each of the next 2 shells, repeat from * all around working all corners
same as 1st corner, join, cut thread.




                          Yellow Edging #8121


                       _Illustrated on back cover_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    4 balls Yellow
  1 Handkerchief
  Steel crochet hook No. 13

Attach thread about ½ inch from any corner, ch 3, 1 d c in each of the
next 2 spaces keeping last loop of each st on hook, thread over and work
off all loops at one time, ch 7, 1 d c in each of the next 3 spaces
keeping last loop of each st on hook, thread over and work off all loops
at one time, ** ch 7, 3 d c in corner space keeping last loop of each st
on hook, thread over and work off all loops at one time, * ch 7, 1 d c
in each of the next 3 spaces keeping last loop of each st on hook,
thread over and work off all loops at one time, repeat from * to next
corner space, repeat from ** all around in same manner ending row with
ch 3, d c in top of 1st d c group (multiple of 4 plus 1 loop on each
side).

2nd Row—Ch 3, 2 d c in d c, * ch 3, 3 d c in center st of next loop,
repeat from * once, ** ch 5, 3 d c in top of 3 d c group at corner, ch
5, 3 d c in center st of next loop, * ch 3, 3 d c in center st of next
loop, repeat from * to last loop before next corner, repeat from ** all
around in same manner ending row to correspond.

3rd Row—Sl st to next loop, s c in same space, * ch 7, s c in next loop,
repeat from * once, ** ch 11, s c in next loop (corner loop), * ch 7, s
c in next loop, repeat from * to last loop on side, repeat from ** all
around in same manner ending row with ch 3, tr c in 1st s c (this brings
thread in position for next row).

4th Row—Ch 7, s c in next loop, ch 4, 3 d c in center st of next loop,
** ch 7, 3 d c, ch 7, 3 d c in center st of corner loop, ch 7, 3 d c in
center st of next loop, * ch 4, s c in next loop, ch 8, s c in next
loop, ch 8, s c in next loop, ch 4, 3 d c in center st of next loop,
repeat from * to loop before corner loop, repeat from ** all around in
same manner ending row with ch 3, tr c in tr c.

5th Row—Ch 8, s c in next loop, ch 4, 3 d c in next d c, ch 7, s c in
next loop, ch 7, 3 tr c in next d c, ch 5, 3 tr c, ch 5, 3 tr c in
center st of corner loop, ch 5, skip 2 d c, 3 tr c in next d c, ch 7, s
c in next loop, ch 7, skip 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, * ch 4, skip 1
loop, s c in next loop, ch 8, s c in next loop, ch 4, 3 d c in next d c,
ch 5, skip 1 d c, 3 d c in next d c, repeat from * to 2nd d c group
before corner d c group, ch 4, s c in next loop, repeat from beginning
all around in same manner ending row to correspond.

6th Row—Sl st to 4th st of next loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, ch 3, 3
d c in next st of same loop, ** ch 4, 3 d c in next d c, ch 5, s c in
next loop, ch 5, s c in next loop, 2 tr c in next tr c, ch 5, s c in
next loop, ch 5, 3 tr c in next tr c, ch 1, 3 tr c, ch 3, 3 tr c in
center st of corner loop, ch 1, skip 2 tr c, 3 tr c in next tr c, ch 5,
s c in next loop, ch 5, skip 2 tr c, 2 tr c in next tr c, s c in next
loop, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 5, skip 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, * ch
4, skip 1 loop, 3 d c in 4th st of next loop, ch 3, 3 d c in next st of
same loop (shell), ch 4, 3 d c in next d c, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch
5, skip 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, repeat from * to last 3 d c, ch 5, 3 d
c group before corner group, ch 4, skip 1 loop, 3 d c in 4th st of next
loop, ch 3, 3 d c in next st, repeat from ** all around in same manner
ending row to correspond.

7th Row—Sl st to center of shell, ** ch 4, skip 1 loop, 3 d c in next d
c, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 6, skip 1 loop, d c in next s c, 1 d c in
each of the next 2 tr c keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread
over and work off all loops at one time, ch 9, skip 1 loop, s c in next
loop, ch 7, s c in next ch 1 loop, ch 7, s c in corner loop, ch 7, s c
in next ch 1 loop, ch 7, s c in next loop, ch 9, 1 d c in each of the
next 2 tr c, 1 d c in next s c, keeping last loop of each d c on hook,
thread over and work off all loops at one time, ch 6, skip 1 loop, s c
in next loop, ch 5, skip 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, * ch 4, skip 1 loop,
s c in next loop of shell, ch 4, skip l loop, 3 d c in next d c, ch 5, s
c in next loop, ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 5, skip 2 d c, 3 d c in next
d c, repeat from * to d c group before last shell, ch 4, s c in loop of
next shell, repeat from ** all around ending row to correspond.

8th Row—Sl st to center st of next loop, ch 7, s c in next loop, * ch 7,
s c in next loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 11, s c in next loop (corner
loop), * ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, * ch 3, 3 d c in
center st of next loop, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 7, s c in next loop,
ch 7, s c in next loop, ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat from * to 5th
loop before corner, repeat from 1st * all around, ending row to
correspond.

9th Row—Sl st to center st of next loop, * ch 7, sl st in 4th st from
hook for picot, ch 3, s c in next loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 5, sl
st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 2, 2 d c in center st of corner
loop, ch 3, sl st in top of last d c for picot, d c in same space, ch 5,
sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 2, 2 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d c in
same space of corner loop, ch 5, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch
2, s c in next loop, * ch 7, sl st in 4th st from hook for picot, ch 3,
s c in next loop, repeat from * 3 times, * ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d
c in center st of next loop, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 5, skip 1 loop,
2 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d c in center d c of next d c group, ch 4, sl st in
3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, 2 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d c in same
space, ch 5, skip 1 loop, s c in next loop, repeat from * to 8th loop
before corner (counting corner loop), ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d c in
center st of next loop, ch 3, s c in next loop, repeat from 1st * all
around ending row to correspond, join, cut thread.




              Tinted Pink and Blue Corner and Edging #8122


                       _Illustrated on back cover_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “STAR” TATTING CROCHET, Article 25
    2 balls Tinted Pink and Blue or any color desired
  Steel crochet hook No. 13
  1 Handkerchief

MOTIF: Ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1 and work 8 s c in ring, join in
1st s c.

2nd Row—Ch 6, d c in next s c, * ch 3, d c in next s c, repeat from * 5
times, ch 3, join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Row—Sl st into loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space leaving last loop of
each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time, ch
5, cluster st in same space (cluster st: 3 d c in same space keeping
last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at
one time), * ch 3, d c in next loop, ch 3, 2 cluster sts with ch 5
between in next loop, repeat from * twice, ch 3, d c in next loop, ch 3,
join.

4th Row—4 s c, ch 5, 4 s c over next loop (corner), 4 s c over next
loop, s c in next d c, 4 s c over next loop, repeat from beginning all
around, join.

5th Row—Sl st to the ch 5 loop at corner, ch 6, d c in same space, * ch
5, 2 d c with ch 3 between in same space, ch 5, skip 7 s c, 1 s c in
each of the next 2 s c, ch 3, sl st in top of last s c for picot, s c in
next s c, ch 5, skip 7 s c, 2 d c with ch 3 between in the ch 5 loop at
next corner, repeat from * all around ending row with ch 5, 2 d c with
ch 3 between in same space, ch 5, skip 7 s c, 1 s c in each of the next
2 s c, ch 3, sl st in top of last s c for picot, s c in next s c, ch 5,
join in 3rd st of ch, cut thread.

Work a 2nd motif joining it to 1st motif in last row as follows: sl st
to ch 5 loop at corner, ch 6, d c in same space, ch 2, s c in corner
loop of 1st motif, ch 2, d c in same space of 2nd motif, ch 1, s c in
next loop of 1st motif, ch 1, d c in same space of 2nd motif, ch 2, s c
in next loop of 1st motif, ch 2, skip 7 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 2
s c of 2nd motif, picot, s c in next s c, ch 2, s c in next loop of 1st
motif, ch 2, skip 7 s c, d c in corner loop of 2nd motif, ch 1, s c in
next loop of 1st motif, ch 1, d c in same space of 2nd motif, ch 2, s c
in center loop of 1st motif, ch 2, d c in same space of 2nd motif, ch 3,
d c in same space, finish motif same as 1st motif. Join all motifs in
same manner having 3 motifs in 1st row, 2 motifs in 2nd row and 1 motif
in 3rd row. Sew in position at corner. Trim linen from underneath
crocheted motifs.

EDGE: Attach thread on handkerchief to left of corner, * 1 s c in each
of the next 5 spaces, ch 4, sl st in top of last s c for picot, repeat
from * all around to same space at opposite side of same corner, join,
cut thread.

    [Illustration: See Pgs. 14 and 15 for instructions on above Edgings]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 81: Edgings, by Anonymous

